So, the internet is kind of the elephant in the room right now. Actually, a better description of it would be that it's the elephant that ****runs**** the room. I've been doing some reading lately though, and I've got a good idea of where it came from and how it became what it is today.

Even though it wasn't around in a way you might recognize it until the early 90s, the idea of the internet goes all the way back to the first half of the 20th century. Back in 1910, this really smart Belgian dude named Paul Otlet and his friend Henri La Fontaine put together a massive collection of documents linked by common information on index cards called "Réseau". As the collection grew, Otlet had realized in the mid-30's that there was no way it could be managed anymore and he started dreaming up a mechanized version of his collection that anyone could access from anywhere in the world via a television, like a universal library. He even thought of making it into a social network of some kind that people could interact with each other through. It was a pretty lofty idea back then, expecially considering that the idea of a computer back then was extremely primitive and there was no such thing as a network yet. I mean, keep in mind that the ENIAC wouldn't even be invented for another decade. That being said though, this is our earliest record of a vision for the Internet as we know it today.

Like many things, there would be no machine network like this until it became useful to the United States government. In 1958, Washington would establish the Advanced Research Projects Agency, or ARPA. ARPA communicated information with other government agencies like NASA, RAND, CIA, the military, and eventually large research universities. In order to speed up communication and keep it as secure as possible, ARPA created ARPANET, a closed nationwide system of communication through computer systems. Essentially, this was the first incarnation of the internet.

A couple of decades later when computer systems became much more common in labs and businesses, a hobbyist named Dennis Hayes would start playing around with devices that interacted with the telephone network set up by Bell Labs. Previously, there were devices that allowed business computers to be connected on a network, but nothing for the more commercially available Altair computer kits used by early hobbyists (the same ones that would go on to found clubs like Homebrew and later develop breakthroughs like the Apple I). By 1977, Hayes would develop a functional computer modem that allowed him and his hobbyist friends to create networks with other Altair 8800 users, and later the owners of systems from Apple, HP, and IBM.

Around the same time, Theodor Nelson was building on Paul Otlet's ideas to theorize the idea of "Xanadu" in his book "Computer Lib". Xanadu was a more conetempoarary idea of a worldwide web that championed the idea of personal computers for everyone, whereas Otlet clearly had more academic types in mind. Nelson recognized the importance that a network like this would have on the lives of everyone in the world. It's most important distinction however, was in its structure. Rather than distributing documents in packages as Otlet had theorized, Nelson thought it'd be more wise to have this network quickly pull information in a non-sequential way from its source, ie an early implementation of hypertext.

ARPANET was still being used by the military in the 1970s as well, but it was only one piece of the puzzle. At this point, many world governments are using their own ARPANET-adjacent networks for communication. As these networks developed, world governments began to realize how useful they would be for communicating with the governments of other nations. This need gave birth to the first common protocol for exchanging packets between networks, TCP/IP (Transfer Control Protocol/Internet Protocol), a standard still largely in use today . The internet would continue in this closed form until its most important innovation to date was created in 1991 by British computer scientist Tim Berners-Lee, an open internet for the public we call the World Wide Web. 